---
layout: post
title: Intertolerance
---

When discussing application, infrastructures, protocols, messaging,
etc, it is necessary to precisely agree on semantics of expressions in
order to avoid “mistakes”. However, HTML as a representation format
has survived largely due to its ability to “tolerate” expressions that
are not understood… the browser just ignores those expressions it
doesn't understand. That behavior / tolerance has allowed “backward
compatibility” of HTML and browser versions, as new language
constructs can be introduced that are just seamlessly (mostly) just
ignored by older browsers.

Recently, Frode (Hegland) has introduced a need to discuss
representation formats. One very strong reason Frode likes HTML is
this ability to tolerate expressions that are not currently
understood.

Sam (I) was asked by Frode today “If you went off on your own today
with $2M+ to build something, what would you build?” I recalled my
early 90’s desire to build a “spreadliner” - an application (we
thought in terms of apps in those days) that could take a chunk of
text, and allow those memes to be spread out spatially so that visual
relationships could be depicted (not just mind-mapped), and also have
individual nodes / chunks / memes that could be attributed so that
they could be viewed in tabular, or spreadsheet, views. Fundamentally,
I (Sam) seek knowledge representation that can allow multiple
presentation modes (Doug calls them viewspecs), clearly separating the
KNOWLEDGE from the PRESENTATION OF THAT KNOWLEDGE. (reference here to
**GlobalSIM** vs GlobalVIZ aka **MenTour**).

In order that the knowledge be presentable in multiple views, we must
design knowledge representation in such a way that metadata required
for one view be non-harmful to the fundamental knowledge object, or to
other views.

What is still a question is WHERE this metadata ought be located. Is
it a part of the knowledge itself? Arguably, it is NOT essential to
the knowledge itself, but to the viewspec / presentation mode that is
being applied at viewtime.

More to be mulled...

