---
layout: post
title: An Extraordinary Interview
---

I've interviewed a few times, and did hiring-side interviews
(hundreds, of not thousands) over the course of decades, but my most
extraordinary interview happened in one of my very first handful of
interviews as a freshman at Stanford. For a reason I don't now but
might later recall I told this story to Ronni this morning and I
thought it worth writing down; I may move it later, but I'm putting it
here for now.

My dad was a not-well-paid University mathematics professor at
University of New Mexico at the time. So I did qualify for a
work-grant "scholarship", and I applied to any part-time jobs I could
possibly qualify for as a freshmen ( :) ).

I found an opportunity at the university medical center (SUMC), and it
was a bit better-paying than most others (going rate at the time was
about $2.10/hr ish).  

So when I got there, the interview was not very verbal; the
interviewer, a (graduate?) lab assistant put me across a lab table
from him, and demonstrated how to remove the adrenal gland from lab
mice. He put chloroform on a pad, put the pad over the nose of the
mouse, cut the body vertically about less than an inch or so, found
the heart, found the adrenal gland, used what looked like an exacto
knife to remove it, and then stitched the mouse up again. Then, he
said "Your turn". So I did the whole bit: chloroform to sewing, and we
made sure the mouse revived. Afterward he said "Most interviewees
don't get this far. You got the job." Unfortunately for me, I didn't
see myself doing this one or two dozen times per day, so I said "I
think I'll look for something else."

![lab mouse](https://grist.files.wordpress.com/2014/07/lab-rat.jpg?w=1024&h=576&crop=1)

I don't often remember this, but now I'm wondering how differet my
life would be if I'd taken that job...

<hr/>

Footnote: I eventually took a (really boring) job as a data entry
clerk at ARAMIS (American Rheumatism Association Medical Information
System), entering numeric-digit-codes into very long forms on a late /
night shift. I was too error-prone, so that only lasted about a
half-year.