---
layout: post
title: Spent Sunday Working With Jekyll on Github.io
---

Yesterday afternoon, while learning more about jekyll and github.io as
a blogging platform, I pointed SuperSammetry.com at SSYH.github.io as
my (currently experimental) blogging location for all things GCC &
PFTF & COI & Collaborology & KF & Engelbartian and associated topics
:) I'm curious to see (in myself) whether this is effective for me as
a conduit for ideas and interaction.

Also spent some time updating my "About" page with specifics of events
& patents, and was pleasantly surprised to find that unlike my
previous (and now understood as incorrect) impression, my name WAS
included on the thin client patent at Siebel; I had thought that after
I had fought so hard to make sure Thanh Diec's name was included (it
was originally left off) that mine would be removed, as was threatened
when I made a fuss to make sure Thanh was not excluded.

So I am actually named on 8 (**eight**) patents; quite a few more than
I had thought; I had thought I only had the 2 from DocuMagix, and 2
from eGain, but now I see more :)

I am a little sad that some of the best stuff was NOT published a/o
patented, because it was done on classified projects at ESL. I did add
a note to that effect on the *About* page. **THAT** stuff was truly
ground-breaking!

<hr/>

I experimented a little with Jekyll. Here's what I believe (to be confirmed):
* Only one entry is allowed per day. I tried putting 2 files with the same date in _posts/ but didn't see 2.
* The title needs to have SOMETHING other than the formatted date, to serve as the URI, so I'll just make it the date again without the hyphens.
