---
layout: post
title: Why Record? (Audio, Video, etc)
---

A long-standing question in GCC, and a practice which probably keeps
some potential participants away, is that we record all our
conversations in video (using Zoom), and share them. Recently, the
Saturday and Sunday sessions are shared publicly, but most of the
previous ones since inception were shared to the GCC FB group only as
unlisted links, and "not publicly".

There are a few reasons NOT to record that have been raised:
* People will be more free to "be themselves"
* It may reflect badly on me and affect my income
* others...?

I won't bother to address these. If necessary, I can do so later.

There are a few reasons FOR recording these sessions: 

We only participate in English, at 8am PT (for now), with Zoom, for
2 hours. Each of these factors is a filter on WHO can participate. For
example, non-English speakers, people who are asleep at this
particular time, people without internet access, people who can't
afford 2 hours of unpredictable and potentially uninteresting or
irrelevant topics, etc. are all precluded from attending. Recording at
least allows these folk to check in on these happenings, and get a
sense of how and what was discussed.

We follow (mostly, still TBS, TBC) a "let's not interrupt"
  protocol. We also (mostly) follow a speak briefly (not too long)
  protocol. This usually means that by the time *I* get to speak,
  several other topics have been put "on the table" PAST the one that
  I really wanted to respond to. So if each speaker has this issue,
  each speaker may NOT be responding to the point made directly
  preceding, and so that "flow" of the conversation may be difficult
  to follow. Not only is it difficult to follow, the entirety of a
  conversation may not be apparent unless one has very good memory and
  visualization and mapping skills, or uses a tool & technique to
  capture these topics, who said what, how what was said connects to
  what was previously said, which "threads" are relatively fleshed
  out, and which "threads" or specific utterances were never followed
  up, or further elaborated.

Having a record allows such mapping / re-creation of flow to be done
POST session, so that the "space" of discussion can be depicted
visually and shared, so that an understanding can be created and
shared for WHAT was actually discussed, and whether the state of the
discussion in this BETTER UNDERSTOOD representation guides further and
future conversation.

Another set of insights that can be gleaned by reviewing recordings of conversations is to note HOW follow or interaction happens, or doesn't happen. In other words:
* Did a topic get elaborated?
* Did common understanding get established?
* Did assumptions get adopted unwittingly?
* Did someone "talk over" someone else?
* Did someone never get to speak?
* Did someone's contribution get misinterpreted?
 * Unintentionally?
 * Intentionally?
* Did mutual respect and careful listening bring out everyone's contributions?
* Were everyone invited to speak?
* Did time drive a consensus? or did consensus get established by reviewing everyone's points?
* Did a "agree to disagree" achieve anything positive? negative?
* < many other question >

These are questions which allow analysis and reconstruction of
conversation dynamics and flow. This is a practice in the study of
collaborology. Having these records of conversations provides MUCH
fodder for such collaborology studies.

< more later >
