---
layout: post
title: Webinar Today
---

Got almost no sleep last night, but did get in a couples hours of
naptime around 6am-7am before getting up to gather final notes for the
webinar today. Lost track of time a bit toward the end, so didn't get
through all the prepared content, but did manage to hit the chatbot
offer pretty hard as "actionable information" so that prospects and
customers could really deploy automation.

So I also spent a quick session with Teo to describe my findings for
the next drill-in for abandoned chat sessions. Turns out agents are
either NOT assigned to an activity (chat request), or they were
assigned, but DID NOT SELECT the activity. This is indication that the
agent pool may be overworked or understaffed. Let Teo know so this
supports his hypotheses that they need to deploy more agents.

Also spent a good session with Ravindra reviewing the key metrics
spreadsheets his team creates and updates for the companies that
engaged managed services. The team is doing good stuff. Will have to
dive in pretty hard to come up to speed on what's being produced &
reported. My first focus will be large ARR customers who DO NOT engage
MS.

JC was not available at our 1on1 time, so gave him a quick snapshot of
what's underway.

On a Facebook status this morning, I proposed a TRANSPARENT voting
system that would address some of the issues that rub me the wrong way
(but hard!) from the current cesspool that is American politics. Lack
of integrity, blatant lying, blatang corruption & nepotism, complete
disregard for the health of the citizenry by both Biden AND Trump, and
to sadly face that Bernie is defocusing ont he campaign in favor or
raising support for the unfortunate people who are having a hard time
through this covid crisis. The world just doesn't appreciate honest
sincere well-intentioned man like Bernie. They'd rather have 2 rapists
on the ballot.